add society (#337)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/maintain-guides-society.md

---
id: maintain-guides-society
title: Participate in Society
sidebar_label: Participate in Society
---

> Society is an economic game to incentivize users to join the society that coordinates around whatever the rules are decided to be. The members of the society are incentivized to participate in society via the rewards paid by the treasury. Currently, there is only one society on Kusama but it is possible to have multiple societies in the future through the runtime upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Society is an economic game to incentivize users to join the society that coordinates around whatever the rules are decided to be. The members of the society are incentivized to participate in society via the rewards paid by the treasury. Currently, there is only one society on Kusama but it is possible to have multiple societies in the future through a runtime upgrade.
```

Is treasury the only way for a society to be funded?

> **_NOTE:_** 
>
> The maximum number of strikes you can have is 10 in Kusama.

These slashed funds will be given to a random member who voted the same as the selected vote as a reward for participating in the vote.

If the candidate wins the vote, they receive their bid reward as a future payout. If the bid was placed by a voucher, they will get the reward that was set during vouching with the remainder given to the candidate.

If the candidate loses the vote, they are suspended and it is up to the suspension judgment origin to determine if the candidate should go through the bidding process again, should be accepted into the membership society, or rejected and their deposit slashed.

### 3. Member Phase

Once you become a member of the society, you will get back the deposit that you have reserved during the bidding. A few things you need to be aware of. First, you should vote on candidates who applied for the membership in every rotation period. 

![Society Vote Defender](assets/society/vote_defender.jpg) 

> defenderVote(approve)
>
> approve - Yes / No

> Second, you will need to claim your payout manually by calling `payout()` after a certain period of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, you will need to claim your payout manually by calling `payout()` after a certain period of time.
```

What is this "period of time"?

`Pot`: Resource that is used to support the member of society.

`Bids`: A list of users who submitted a bid to join the society.

## User Types
Below are the various types of users at different stages.

`Bidder` - A token holder who intended to join the society by placing a bid.

`Candidate` - Those selected bidders will become a candidate to wait for the members of society to vote for.

`Suspended Candidate` - Those selected bidders who failed to join the society.

`Member` - Member of the society.

`Suspender Member` - A member of the society who has accumulated too many strikes or failed their membership challenge.

`Head` - One winning candidate will be randomly chosen as head of the members, weighted by the number of approvals the winning candidates accumulated. 

`Defender` - At every challenge period, one of the members will be randomly selected to defend their membership of the society. Regarding what does the defender require to do during the challenge period, you can have a look at [here](https://polkascan.io/pre/kusama/transaction/0x948d3a4378914341dc7af9220a4c73acb2b3f72a70f14ee8089799da16d94c17).

## Procedure

> **Remember to take a look at the rules written [here](https://polkascan.io/pre/kusama/transaction/0x948d3a4378914341dc7af9220a4c73acb2b3f72a70f14ee8089799da16d94c17) first. And since those rules are not enforced on-chain, it is recommended to join the [public chat room](https://matrix.to/#/!BUmiAAnAYSRGarqwOt:matrix.parity.io?via=matrix.parity.io&via=matrix.org&via=web3.foundation) to ask any questions if you have something do not understand or unclear.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Remember to take a look at the rules written [here](https://polkascan.io/pre/kusama/transaction/0x948d3a4378914341dc7af9220a4c73acb2b3f72a70f14ee8089799da16d94c17) first. And since those rules are not enforced on-chain, it is recommended to join the [public chat room](https://matrix.to/#/!BUmiAAnAYSRGarqwOt:matrix.parity.io?via=matrix.parity.io&via=matrix.org&via=web3.foundation) to ask any questions if anything is unclear.**
```

### 1. Bid Phase

> Anyone can submit a bid to join the society by reserving a deposit or find an existing member to create a bid on behalf by vouching for you. At every rotation period, bids will be selected as many bids the society pot can support. And those selected bids will be moved to the candidate phase, whereas bids that were not selected will stay in the bidder pool until they are selected or a user chooses to unbid.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Anyone can submit a bid to join the society by reserving a deposit or finding an existing member to create a bid on their behalf by vouching for them. At every rotation period, as many bids the society pot can support will be selected. The selected bids will be moved to the candidate phase, whereas bids that were not selected will stay in the bidder pool until they are selected or a user chooses to unbid.
```

![Society Dashboard](assets/society/submit_bid.jpg)

> Anyone who wants to join the society that is required to deposit 10 KSM for reserve on Kusama and placing the bid(1 in this case) that you want to get when joining the society. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Anyone who wants to join the society is required to deposit 10 KSM for reserve on Kusama and place the bid amount (1 KSM in this case) that they want to get when joining the society. 
```

![Society Dashboard](assets/society/test_bid.jpg)

> Once you have submitted the transaction, your bid will be shown on the [Society page](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/society) under the bids section. You can cancel the bidding if you decided not to join the society by calling the `unbid(pos)`.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you have submitted the transaction, your bid will be shown on the [Society page](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/society) under the bids section. You can cancel the bidding if you decided not to join the society by calling `unbid(pos)`.
```

```bash
unbid(pos)

pos - The index of the bid. 
```

> If you are not sure what your position is, you can check that by going to the [Society->bids](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/chainstate) the PolkadotJS apps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are not sure what your position is, you can check that by going to the [Society->bids chain state](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/chainstate) in the PolkadotJS apps.
```

> You can find an existing member by placing a bid on your behalf if you do not have KSM and you are willing to give a tip to them. An existing member can submit a `vouch(who,value,tip)` transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find an existing member to place a bid on your behalf if you do not have KSM and you are willing to give them a tip. An existing member can submit a `vouch(who,value,tip)` transaction.
```

```bash
vouch(who,value,tip)

who - Which user you are vouching for
value - The value that the user would like to get when joining the society
tip - Fees you get

Note: The final value that the candidate will get = (value - tip)
```

![Society Dashboard](assets/society/vouch.jpg)

### 2. Candidate Phase

![Society Vote Candidate](assets/society/vote_candidate.jpg)

```bash
vote(candidate,approve)

candidate - Select the candidate you would like to vote
approve - Yes / No
```

> Those selected bids in this phase will be voted by the existing members to decide whether you will be approved to join the society. Members will vote for all the candidates and the final outcome will be randomly selected by one of the votes. Let's take a look the example shown as below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bids selected in this phase will be voted on by the existing members to decide whether or not you will be approved to join the society. Members will vote for all the candidates and the final outcome will be randomly selected by one of the votes. Let's take a look the example shown as below:
```

```bash
Note:
- If the randomly selected member does not vote, it will be treated as a rejection.
- For each rotation period, the maximum number of members that can be accepted is set as 10. 
```

A - Accept,  R - Reject,  S - Skeptic

> Member | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Member   | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 |
```

> --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | --- |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-------- | - | - | - | - | - |
```

> Vote | A | A | A | R | S |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vote     | A | A | A | R | S |
```

> Selected | | | X | | | 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Selected |   |   | X |   |   | 
```

> In this example, this candidate will be approved to join the society since member 3 was selected as a final outcome. Also, a number of members will be randomly chosen as `skeptics` to vote for the candidates during the rotation period. Since members 5 was chosen as a skeptic, he is required to participate in the voting process. If he does not participate in voting, he will be punished by increase his strike per missing vote. And if you have accumulated too many stikes, your membership will be suspended which means you may need to re-apply the membership and your unclaimed payouts will be slashed. Moreover, each member who voted opposite to the randomly selected vote will be slashed their unclaimed payouts and increase their strikes. In this case, member 4 will be punished.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, a candidate will be approved to join the society since member 3 was selected as a final voting outcome. A number of members will also be randomly chosen as "skeptics" to vote for the candidates during the rotation period. Since member 5 was chosen as a skeptic, they are required to participate in the voting process. If they do not participate in voting, they will be punished with one strike per missing vote. If one accumulates too many strikes, one's membership is suspended which means they may need to re-apply and their unclaimed payouts will be slashed. Moreover, each member who voted opposite to the randomly selected vote will have their unclaimed payouts slashed and strikes increased. In this case, member 4 will be punished.
```

```bash
Note:

> - The maximum number of strikes you can have is 10 in Kusama.

Reviewer 2: Why put this in code vs blockquote?

```

> These slashed funds will be given to a random member who voted the same as the selected vote as a reward for participating in the vote.

Reviewer 2: Is this reward time-locked? Also, is the reward for a new joinee time-locked?

> If the candidate wins the vote, they receive their bid reward as a future payout. If the bid was placed by a voucher, they will get the reward that was set during vouching. And the remaining will be given to the candidate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the candidate wins the vote, they receive their bid reward as a future payout. If the bid was placed by a voucher, they will get the reward that was set during vouching with the remainder given to the candidate.
```

> If the candidate loses the vote, they are suspended and it is up to the suspension judgment origin to determine if the candidate should go through the bidding process again, should be accepted into the membership society, or rejected and their deposit slashed.

Reviewer 2: Clarify "suspension judgement origin"?

### 3. Member Phase

> Once you become a member of society,  you will get back the deposit that you have reserved during the bidding. A few things you need to be aware of. First, you should vote on candidates who applied for the membership for every rotation period. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you become a member of the society, you will get back the deposit that you have reserved during the bidding. A few things you need to be aware of. First, you should vote on candidates who applied for the membership in every rotation period. 
```

![Society Vote Defender](assets/society/vote_defender.jpg) 

```bash
defenderVote(approve)

approve - Yes / No
```

Second, you will need to claim your payout manually by calling `payout()` after a certain period of time.

![Society Payout](assets/society/payout.jpg) 

> Third, there will have a membership challenge for every `7` days on Kusama. So one of the members will be randomly selected as a defender. Then, other members can vote whether this defender should stay in society. A simple majority wins the vote will determine the outcome of the member. You can take a look at [here](https://polkascan.io/pre/kusama/transaction/0x948d3a4378914341dc7af9220a4c73acb2b3f72a70f14ee8089799da16d94c17) and search for "Existing Members (Challenges)" keyword.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Third, there will be a membership challenge every seven days on Kusama. So one of the members will be randomly selected as a defender. Then, other members can vote whether this defender should stay in society or not. A simple majority wins the vote. You can take a look [here](https://polkascan.io/pre/kusama/transaction/0x948d3a4378914341dc7af9220a4c73acb2b3f72a70f14ee8089799da16d94c17) and search for "Existing Members (Challenges)".
```

> Besides that, you can earn an extra KSM by helping a user to apply for the membership by requesting a tip. This is useful when a user does not have enough balance to deposit a reserve. And the tip will be given when a user successfully joins the society.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Besides that, you can earn extra KSM by helping a user apply for the membership and requesting a tip. This is useful when a user does not have enough balance to deposit a reserve. The tip will be given when a user successfully joins the society.
```

```bash

> Note:

Reviewer 2: I recommend against using code blocks for notes everywhere, and focusing on using blockquotes for this.

Author: updated

![Society Dashboard](assets/society/dashboard.jpg)

Before joining the society, let's take a brief look at the [Society UI](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/society) on PolkadotJS apps and read through all the  [rules](https://polkascan.io/pre/kusama/transaction/0x948d3a4378914341dc7af9220a4c73acb2b3f72a70f14ee8089799da16d94c17) to become a member.

## UI Overview

> `Members`: The number of members in the society. Currently, the maximum number of members current is set to `150`. It can be changed by using governance to increase the number. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Members`: The number of members in the society. Currently, the maximum number of members is set to `150`. It can be changed by using governance to increase the number. 
```

`Rotation`: The time period that processes the membership application. 

> `Challenge`: The time period to randomly select one of the members to defend his membership into the society. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Challenge`: The time period to randomly select one of the members to defend his membership in the society. 
```

`Pot`: Resource that is used to support the member of society.

`Bids`: A list of users who submitted a bid to join the society.

## User Types
Below are the various types of users at different stages.

> `Bidder` - A token holder who intended to join the society by placing a bid.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Bidder` - A token holder who intends to join the society by placing a bid.
```

`Candidate` - Those selected bidders will become a candidate to wait for the members of society to vote for.

`Suspended Candidate` - Those selected bidders who failed to join the society.

`Member` - Member of the society.

`Suspender Member` - A member of the society who has accumulated too many strikes or failed their membership challenge.

`Head` - One winning candidate will be randomly chosen as head of the members, weighted by the number of approvals the winning candidates accumulated. 

> `Defender` - At every challenge period, one of the members will be randomly selected to defend their membership of the society. Regarding what does the defender require to do during the challenge period, you can have a look at [here](https://polkascan.io/pre/kusama/transaction/0x948d3a4378914341dc7af9220a4c73acb2b3f72a70f14ee8089799da16d94c17).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Defender` - In every challenge period, one of the members will be randomly selected to defend their membership in the society. The rules for defending the membership are documented [here](https://polkascan.io/pre/kusama/transaction/0x948d3a4378914341dc7af9220a4c73acb2b3f72a70f14ee8089799da16d94c17).
```
